# Documentation

This repository contains the source code for the following paper, please pursue [this link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544217310423?via%3Dihub) to access it:

Li, B., de Queiroz, A. R., DeCarolis, J. F., Bane, J., He, R., Keeler, A. G., Neary, V. S. The economics of electricity generation from Gulf Stream currents. Energy, 134 (2017): 649 - 658.

# Resource assessment
- `processing.m`
  - MABSAB model covers a vast sea area and original data files are huge in size, usually several GB. This script reads original netCDF files generated by MABSAB model and extracts velocity components only within a specified region. 
  - Input: `ocean_his_xxxx.nc`
  - Output: `<year>.mat`

- `process_depth.m`
  - MABSAB represents depth by 36 terrain-following layers, therefore, bathymetry is needed to determine the exact depth of each layer. Original bathymetry data (`depth_rho.mat`) covers the whole MABSAB model domain, which is gigantic. This script reads the original data and extracts the data within a specified domain only.
  - Input: `depth_rho.mat`
  - Output: `depth_domain.mat`

# Portfolio optimization
- `MEP_calculate.m`
  - Input : `<year>.mat`, `depth_domain.mat`
  - Output: Save monthly energy output (`MEP_grid`) in `MEP<year>.mat`, each year is an independent file

- `MEP_combine.m`
  - Input: `MEP<year>.mat`
  - Output: A single file (`MEP.mat`) including 6 years of monthly energy output (`MEP`)

- `pa_preprocess.m`
  - Input: `MEP.mat`, `2009result.mat`
  - Output: [Figure 3](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544217310423?via%3Dihub#fig3) (coefficient of correlation vs. distance) and [Figure A](https://ars.els-cdn.com/content/image/1-s2.0-S0360544217310423-mmc1.pdf) (in the Appendix, frequency vs. distance).

- `pa.m`
  - This script runs the portfolio optimization as a continuous quadratic programming (QP) problem.
  - Input: `MEP.mat`, `depth_domain.mat`, `2009result.mat`
  - Output: A figure showing CF vs. 𝜎2.

- `pa_miqp.m`
  - This script runs the portfolio optimization as a mixed integer quadratic programing (MIQP) problem.
  - Input: `MEP.mat`, `depth_domain.mat`, `2009result.mat`, `<year>result.mat` if run 6-site test case
  - Output: Due to computational complexity, this model is never solved and a two-stage simplified version is solved instead.

- `pa_2step.m`
  - This script runs the portfolio optimization as a two-stage problem, the first stage is a continuous linear programming problem (LP) and the second step is a mixed integer quadratic programing (MIQP) problem.
  - Input: `MEP.mat`, `depth_domain.mat`, `2009result.mat`
  - Output: A scatter graph showing Pareto frontier of both stages
